In the end, what are the teachings? To get the realization of the absolute nature of our mind or to
discover the Buddha nature.
Buddha nature, we need two merits. Merit is also known as accumulation merit versus meritus.
So this making Ganachakra offering is really one of the very powerful skillful means of the
practices of the Vajrayana teachings.
The teachings are accumulated immediately. So many merits, not just accumulated merits, but also a
Muslim merit in the teaching center.
It's very special. Then also during the Nanachakra offering, for example, we couldn't do too much
of this 10th day
of the Purya of Gurbel Masambhava and the 25th day of the ceremony of the Dakanishin so that we
couldn't do too much.
But if you're able to do those, it's really accumulated so strongly merit immediately.
But at the same time, it is the purification. It's the healings. And what in the teaching state?
Yes, we do. Since we're practitioners, we can also, even though we're practitioners, I shouldn't
say since,
practitioners, we can make moral mistakes too. And we make mistakes in the past lifetimes too.
And we also sometimes miss our commitment, what we promised, what we should do.
And particularly related with vows, such as Vinaya vows, Bodhisattva vows, and Vajrayana vows,
known as Samayas.
We break that. Whenever you do this Nanachakra offering, do that. It is also really restoring your
vows.
Cleansing what we broke in Samayas or mixed up our vows and all that, we're cleansing that error
and mistake.
Same time, we're restoring that and accumulating merit. So therefore, this Ganachakra offering is
very, very special.
And Ganachakra is a Sanskrit word, and we translate it in English, maybe the will of the
accumulation, will.
W-H-E-E-L-L, will of accumulations. Or it can be translated will of assembly, assemblies.
What are those wills? In the teaching, there are four wills. Four wills or four accumulations of
hope.
And what I see translated, assembly. And also it can be translated gathering too. Gathering,
accumulation, assemblies.
And what is forced gathering?
Forced gathering is a Portland, male and female, Vidyadhara, are gathered together.
So that means, Sangha members come together, do the Nanachakra. It's a gathering of Portland, Vidy
adhara, male and female.
Or yogi and yoginis, gathered together. That is known as forced gathering or forced accumulation,
forced assembly.
Second gathering is delightful gathering of the deities or the Buddhas.
When we made the Banachakra offering, even they are just making that just kind of as a party, but
we are really inviting so many invisible, enlightened beings that maybe we don't see all that.
What are those are known as Vidyadhara teaching. Guru, Deva, Dakinis and Dharmapalas. All
assemblies are invited.
So then now, all the ordinary gathered students are gathered or practitioners are gathered.
That is one, not just the only. Now all the deities, male and female, delightful gathered to
participate in that ceremony and that celebration.
That is too stable. So that is the second. Third gathering is all the sumptuous offerings are
gathered.
Sumptuous offerings of them, whatever you can offer. Not just one apple or two bananas. That is
still okay.
You don't have the capabilities in the remote countries, in the Himalaya region, up in the Arirang,
the mountain, you are alone staying there.
Maybe you can do that. But some, this offering is also is not something that is going, somebody is
going to check that with you. You can eat you in that.
So, some nice revealed offerings. But in a teaching setting, all the offerings are dedicated for
that purpose.
Not just a laptop of food. Or something that, "Oh, I couldn't use this for longer. It would be in
my room." Now I am going to.
There is no, no, something, whatever it is you can do. Something is possible. Nice, clean, but
dedicated for that.
Have you kept that in the refrigerator for my ceremony or Nanakaka ceremony? That is okay.
It is all your intention that you dedicated, you kept in refrigerator or in the box, food, free,
freezers.
You kept long. Now you defrost and you break that. That is fine. But not just a kind of laptop of
food, we kept it in the long time.
How can I do it too? But I can put it on toast. So, on the fridge and then kind of that. That is
not it.
You can use your salad, but not for offering. So, that is really you.
So, that is all the sumptuous foods. Sumptuous, whatever, good food. Whatever you can pour. Nice
ones.
When you put those displays, what in the teaching set, put those all the foods on the right side of
the table.
Every year the choice. And that side of the table put all the drinks. And particularly during this
time, swap drinks.
It is good. Swap drinks. All those such as any swap drinks. Those like apple cider, apple cranberry
juice.
All those really swap drinks. Not hot drinks, dark too much. Because then, if you do that, then it
really could lose our mindfulness of the yogini.
So, therefore many great masters in modern time mentioned don't use, just use the swap drinks.
Which is good. Good for your health. Good for the health. All the time. So, swap drinks.
Try and put that. All the sumptuous foods. So, that is like sumptuous offering.
Oh well, when you put that offerings on the table, then upper order before the ceremony complete,
we should not check that from there.
And use from the first purpose. Completely dedicated, therefore, until we finish the ceremony.
Completely keep that.
And the court assembly and the gathering and the accumulation is, then, the Vasudha Mary and the
accumulation Mary.
Then it really gathers. What that gathers? Because all the Sangha members, the harmonious Sangha
members who were practicing together,
dedicated, they came to that medal and all the joyful delight for the assembly of the deities, g
urus, devas, dakinis, dharmaparas came there,
and now all the Sanghibas offering is the making offering. Now, that yogi and yoginis are very high
elective stage of the meditative stage.
With the visualization of the creation stage, the complete stage of the disorganized stage.
That stage is combined together, then you are doing the ceremony.
In the teachings, it really will bring the beautiful kind of, it's ignited, a splinter call of the
realization.
And then purify the obstacles, restore, then all the lapse of Samayas and vows, and purify the neg
ativities and obscurations to Mary.
So therefore, it's also named Jhana, Jhaka. Jhana means accumulation, and Jhaka means will, the
continuum, unending wills of this.